---
layout: post
title:  "HSBC's CEO is out in a shocking departure, and the firm is set to lay off thousands"
author: shan
categories: [ Banking ]
image: "https://i.ibb.co/tQm4Jqm/2019-08-04t232234z6lynxnpef730w9rtroptp4davos-meeting.jpg"
tags: [hsbc, featured]
date: 2019-08-04 13:26:00
---
HSBCmade the surprising announcement late Sunday that John Flint would be stepping down as CEO after just 18 months in the role.<li><strong>Following the departure, HSBC confirmed its plan to cut up to 2% of the bank's workforce of almost 238,000. </strong></li><li><strong>The</strong><strong> London-based bank </strong><strong>is just the latest to slash thousands of jobs as the industry faces headwinds from low interest rates, rising trade tensions, and a challenging environment for trading. </strong></li><li><strong>Shares of HSBC fell more than 2% in early trading on Monday. </strong></li>HSBC is piling on to Wall Street's job cuts. And it got rid of its CEO to boot.<p>John Flint, who has held the firm's top job for just 18 months, agreed to step down from his role in a surprising decision. The London-based bank also said it plans to reduce its 238,000-person headcount by up to 2% to cope with a more challenging outlook for the global economy. </p>The news sent shares of HSBC sliding by more than 2% in early trading on Monday. HSBC's stock price has fallen more than 20% since Flint stepped in as CEO in February 2018. <p><span>"In an increasingly complex and challenging global environment, the board feels a change is needed to make the most of the opportunities before us," Mark Tucker, the chairman of HSBC's board, said on the company's earnings call. </span></p><p>Ewen Stevenson, the chief financial officer of HSBC, said the firm expects to pay out between $650 million and $700 million in severance costs this year as a result of the job cuts, but the bank's wage costs will be reduced by that amount in 2020. </p><p>"<span>This program is about </span><span>4</span><span>%</span><span> of our overall wage cost for less than 2% of the headcount.</span>," He said during the bank's earnings call. "I<span>t is at the more senior levels of the organization and, therefore, more strategic in terms of its focus." </span></p><p>HSBC is far from the only bank  bowing to the challenges facing the industry. Major Wall Street banks took a hit during the second quarter as they grappled with low interest rates dampening margins and a slowdown in their trading businesses. </p>Deutsche Bank is still undergoing a massive restructuring of its investment banking and equities trading businesses that will include 18,000 layoffs. Citigroup is also expected to cut hundreds of jobs across its fixed-income and equities trading divisions.<p>HSBC is was roughly flat year-to-date through Friday.</p>